Stay gold, Ponyboy. Stay gold.
It seemed like all the good things had been used up a long time ago. Everything was falling apart.
I guess when you're sixteen and your brother's been knifed in a rumble and you've seen your best friend shot in the back, you don't give a damn if it's against the law to carry switchblades. You do what you have to do to survive.
I didn't know what to say, what to do. I felt like I was two people. One was a tough guy who could fight and the other was scared and wanted to go home.
We were all searching for something golden and eternal, something that would make us feel safe and important, something to hold on to in the night.
And then I was suddenly afraid. Afraid of the unknown, of making mistakes. I realized that growing up is tough, and you have to fight to stay golden.
It seemed like every time I thought I had a handle on things, the ground would shift and I'd be lost all over again.
I was trying to be tough, to be hard, but inside I was still a kid who wanted to be loved and cared for.
That's what it's all about, I guess. Growing up and finding out who you are, what you believe in, what you stand for.
But no matter how much you change, some things stay the same. You'll always be a Soc or a Greaser, a rebel or a saint. You'll always be searching for that golden thing that makes you feel safe and important.
But no matter how hard you try, you can't run away from your problems. They always seem to catch up with you, no matter where you go.
Dally was always telling us to be tough, to never back down, to never give up. But sometimes, being tough means knowing when to back down, when to walk away.
Johnny was the kindest, bravest person I'd ever known. He never backed down from a fight, but he also never started one.
Sometimes, it's not about who wins or loses. It's about standing up for what you believe in, about fighting for what's right.
I realized that the real difference between the Socs and the Greasers wasn't about money or clothes or where we came from. It was about the way we treated each other, about respect and understanding.
And I knew then, more than ever, that we needed to stick together, to support each other, no matter what. Because in a world that seemed to be falling apart, the only thing that truly mattered was the bond of brotherhood that we shared.