She came at last to the end of the line of tents. She stopped and looked
back. A glow of light was on the camp, and the soft overtone of a
multitude of speakers. Now and then a harsher voice cut through. The
smell of smoke filled the air. Someone played a harmonica softly, trying
for an effect, one phrase over and over. Ma stepped in among the willows beside the stream. She moved off the
trail and waited, silently, listening to hear any possible follower. A
man walked down the trail toward the camp, boosting his suspenders and
buttoning his jeans as he went. Ma sat very still, and he passed on
without seeing her. She waited five minutes and then she stood up and
crept on up the trail beside the stream. She moved quietly, so quietly
that she could hear the murmur of the water above her soft steps on the
willow leaves. Trail and stream swung to the left and then to the right
again until they neared the highway. In the gray starlight she could see
the embankment and the black round hole of the culvert where she always
left Tom’s food. She moved forward cautiously, thrust her package into
the hole, and took back the empty tin plate which was left there. She
crept back among the willows, forced her way into a thicket, and sat
down to wait. Through the tangle she could see the black hole of the
culvert. She clasped her knees and sat silently. In a few moments the
thicket crept to life again. The field mice moved cautiously over the
leaves. A skunk padded heavily and unself-consciously down the trail,
carrying a faint effluvium with him. And then a wind stirred the willows
delicately, as though it tested them, and a shower of golden leaves
coasted down to the ground. Suddenly a gust boiled in and racked the
trees, and a cricking downpour of leaves fell. Ma could feel them on her
hair and on her shoulders. Over the sky a plump black cloud moved,
erasing the stars. The fat drops of rain scattered down, splashing
loudly on the fallen leaves, and the cloud moved on and unveiled the
stars again. Ma shivered. The wind blew past and left the thicket quiet,
but the rushing of the trees went on down the stream. From back at the
camp came the thin penetrating tone of a violin feeling about for a
tune. Ma heard a stealthy step among the leaves far to her left, and she grew
tense. She released her knees and straightened her head, the better to
hear. The movement stopped, and after a long moment began again. A vine
rasped harshly on the dry leaves. Ma saw a dark figure creep into the
open and draw near to the culvert. The black round hole was obscured for
a moment, and then the figure moved back. She called softly, “Tom!" The
figure stood still, so still, so low to the ground that it might have
been a stump. She called again, “Tom, oh, Tom!" Then the figure moved.